Librarian
=========

Librarian is a desktop application to manage extensive collection of ebooks effectively. It is built on the concept of flexibilty and stability. It is able to handle large amount of ebooks with maximum efficience. I have tried my maximum to keep the functions minimum so as to improve the efficency of the core engine that drives the application. Librarian is built on the concept of modules. Each functionality is integrated as a module and works as part of the main module. The core module called the librarian handles the communication between various other modules like the UI, filesystem, database and network. The file manager when feed with a path will scan for files in the folder with the qualified extension and collect information. Information is divided into two types, one is the physcial information and other is virtual information. The physical information is static ie. it includes the name of the file, the file size, the hash value, and format specific information. Format specific i.e for eg consider a PDF file and its format specific information is number of pages and dpi of the ebook. This information is not available for all the format types. The vitrual information varies from entities to entities. An entity defines a collection of information. Like it could be a ebook, an article or a thesis. Each has seperate set of virtual information. All the information or rather properties is saved in the backend. The backend to librarian could be any form of relational database.
